The Joe Rogan experience. If you become president, excuse me,
when you become present, sorry.
And you do get to change the way we spend
money and stop spending money on these regime change wars,
what would be the first thing you invested in,
in this country and how would you.
That's a good question. I think there's, um, I'd want to give that some thought,
because there are a whole host of challenges that we're facing. You know,
I mean, healthcare is, is among the top of the list. And, you know,
we've talked a little bit about that. The last time I was here,
our crumbling infrastructure continues to be something that's not only just
uncomfortable. Every time we're driving over potholes, it's actually, uh,
threatening people's lives. And well-beings, uh,
I was in Iowa a few weeks ago and we visited this a few communities that were
completely inundated and devastated by the flooding. Um,
that took place there. Gosh, about 3, 3, 4 weeks ago. Now, uh,
many of them have not been able to return to their homes.
We went and helped out one family.
We were tearing down drywall and ripping up the floors and underneath the wood
and the floors, there was still like tons of water, uh, in place.
And they were talking about how even with, you know, the aid from FEMA and,
and SBA loans, that they,
they are unwilling to put a single dollar back into rebuilding their
homes because they're hearing from the government and the army Corps of
engineers,
that it may take two to four years to fix the levies that broke
down and caused that flooding.
So why would they go and try to pour their life savings back into
rebuilding their homes when they could get flooded again in a year
or in two years,
because we're not making the kinds of investments in our infrastructure that we
need to make. Uh, so there's, you know, education. I mean,
there's a whole host of issues, um,
that I think we need to look at how we can best provide the resources that are
necessary to improve those services, uh, to the American people.
And also look at how, how we're doing business and,
and fixing the problems that exist within those different agencies.
W there's always been a call to help countries in need in the world.
There's always been a call for the United States to step in and, you know, and,
and, and do something.
But yet there's problems in this country that are, that never change.
There's bad communities in this country that are impoverished and crime Britain
that have been the same way for decades.
There was a former Baltimore police officer named Michael Wood who came on my
podcast and he was talking to me about the time when he was in the Baltimore
police department.
They found a piece of paper that was documenting various crimes from the
1970s for someone one of the years from 1970 something.
And it was the same exact crime in the same exact
area that they were having problems with. Now, whether it's homicide,
narcotics, whatever it was,
they were having the exact same issue in the exact same places.
And then he realized like, well, this is there's no effort put to change this.
Yeah, there's no, there's,
if you're talking about decades and decades and decades, why wasn't there,
uh, money funneled into this community?
Why isn't there some community centers that help children?
Why isn't there an emphasis on better education?
Why isn't there more police officers,
or at least some sort of civilian presence that
helps out people and stop some of this crime and gives people a better place to
live and then fix a lot of this.
What you're seeing decade after decade. Yeah. If we want to make America better,
the best way to do that is to fix the weakest parts,
the weakest parts of the people that are born in a situation,
they don't get a good break. They got a bad break.
They're born in a crime ridden environment.
And then they have to figure out how to be a better person while dealing with
all this. And then you've got people that are aloof to this that are like, Hey,
figure it out for yourself. I did. Yeah.
Like as if we all start from the same spot in this crazy game called life,
because we don't know those people are in the worst spot.
Why can't we fix the worst spot? It seems like we could, if we can help Iraq,
if we can invade Syria,
if we can do some of the things that people either want us to do,
or we have done, why can't we do that?
Yeah. And that's, that's what I often remind people is that right now,
today we spend $4 billion every month in Afghanistan,
$4 billion every month, every single month,
imagine what could be done with those dollars in those resources in
communities like Baltimore in communities like Flint, Michigan,
where people are still being poisoned by their water,
where they're being lied to and cheated by their leadership where the governor
sent in these inspectors and cleared the water saying, Hey, everything's fine.
What he didn't tell people was that when those inspectors went in,
they turned the faucet and let the water run for five minutes before they tested
it to clean all the crap out of the pipes and create this false
conclusion that somehow the water is clean.
When the people who live there know that it is still not safe to drink.
And for some folks, they can't even take a shower in their own homes.
And so that's why you're not going to hear any other presidential candidates
talking about the cost of war and where our
money is going and how it is counter to our national security.
It's making us less safe.
It's counter to the interests of our people and the people in those countries.
But this is why I talk about this everywhere I go, because it's central,
it's central to our ability to address these domestic challenges that
we are facing. We in this country are facing in communities across the country,
dealing with healthcare affordable housing.
There's a homeless crisis in both urban cities and rural
people who are not able to afford to put a roof over their heads.
People who are working, full-time maybe one,
maybe two jobs even still can't afford to put a roof over their heads.
There's serious issues that we need to address here,
but to think that somehow we'll have the resources to do so without
addressing where trillions of our dollars have been going now for the last
several years, uh, is a lie. It's just not true.
When you talk about people that are working full-time jobs and they still don't
have enough money to get by. What could you do to change that?
Well, I think there's, uh, we, there's not one single action that can fix that.
Uh, you know, I'm pushing for a living wage. I think it's important that, uh,
it's, it's going to be different in different places. You know, I've,
I'm a co-sponsor of the, uh,
congressional legislation to raise the minimum wage to $15 at the federal
level. Um, you know,
there has not been an increase in the federal minimum wage for a very long time.
Uh, and I think that's, that's a step that can be taken, but, you know,
Los Angeles is like Hawaii where a $15 an hour job
is not going to be enough to pay the rent. Cause you got high cost of living.
So living wage is going to be higher.
And in communities like ours than it is in smaller communities or
Midwest.
What would you suggest for Los Angeles, $20 an hour?
I don't, I don't know what the answer is here. It would have to be more.
I think,
so the argument against that would be that small businesses would go under or
hire less people or that somehow or another, it would be bad for business. Yeah.
I think there's a, you know, I mean the cost of living here is higher.
And so what we are paying the employees who work in these industries in these
service jobs has to match that.
It has to correlate with that higher cost of living. It costs more to go out,
to eat here than it does to go out, to eat in a restaurant in, I don't know,
Alabama, for example. So I think we've got to,
we've got to recognize people who are doing the work, um,
that correlates with the higher cost of living that we're seeing already. Um,
I'm, I'm really looking at the universal basic income, uh,
and seeing how that could be a tool to, um,
help deal with a lot of these poverty stricken communities and people who've
been struggling and still unable to dig themselves out of a hole there and
seeing how that potentially could replace a lot of the bureaucracy,
a lot of the money that we're spending on bureaucracy and a lot of social
welfare programs, perhaps to both save money and to provide support directly,
uh, to people who need it. Uh,
so I think that's an option that we've got to consider. There's it's,
it's not simple.
And so I'm doing the research and figuring out how exactly that would work and
how exactly we'd pay for it. Uh, but we also have to look at affordable housing.
I think not accepting the fact that the high cost of housing is what it is,
um, is, is not the solution. Um,
there's a lot of money that goes into our housing and urban development
department,
but is it really having the effect that we needed to have to it so that,
you know, whether it's cops or teachers or firefighters,
people who are working in these public service jobs are able to afford to live
in, live in the communities where they're working. We were in Malibu yesterday,
we had a town hall there yesterday and took a tour with the mayor city council
members, community leaders,
around a lot of the areas that were completely devastated by the
fires.
And that was one of the things that they mentioned is that they pointed out a
trailer park, um,
traditionally where a lot of those first responders live,
that's where the workforce in Malibu have lived in that trailer park.
And they said that it's not unheard of that.
One of those trailer homes go for a million bucks, a million bucks,
and you don't even get to own the land that your trailer sits on.
And so this is a real problem that they're facing is people who are teaching in
that area, the firefighters who are working in that area,
they're not able to afford to live in the community that they serve.
How could that be fixed? That's a supply and demand thing.
There's not that much beachfront.
Communities. I mean, you know, there's, there's land in the valleys and,
and other areas, but some communities are dealing with this, uh,
both in the private sector, there's, there's hotels in Hawaii, for example,
who are recognizing that they can't attract workers to work in the hotels
because they can't afford to live near where they work and they're starting to
buy it properties to actually provide that workforce housing at an affordable
cost to be able to attract those workers. Uh,
some communities are doing the same thing for, uh, for first responders,
for firefighters and others. So this is a problem that, that a lot of, you know,
city councils and local communities are trying to, to deal with and solve.
But I think it also points to a bigger problem that we have, uh,
nationally, that there's just not enough affordable,
truly affordable housing for working people in the country.
But a place like Malibu is always been this exclusive community,
because there's just not that much Malibu. Right. It's right next to the water.
So it's more valuable. Yeah. Like if, if,
is there a way to do anything that would change that?
Well, this that's what I was asking the mayor about. And that, and that was,
that was one of the things they said that has been, um, you know,
people look at Malibu and they're like, well,
that's where a bunch of multi-millionaire rich people go and buy their beach
homes, but there has always been a, you know, the,
the basis of that community was really founded on those who worked to build the
community, uh, you know,
middle middle-class middle-class people who are increasingly being pushed out.
If you're not living in the home that, you know, your grandfather,
your great-grandfather built,
then you're not going to be able to afford to stay there. Uh, so, you know, he,
we didn't get into the, the details on what they're looking at,
but this is something that the city council and the mayor are grappling with now
to be able to attract workers who want to work in the area,
but who don't want to have to drive two hours or three hours just to get to
their place of work.
Yeah. I just don't know how you would ever.
Do that. Yeah. Especially with all those fat cats that are living in Malibu.
I mean, it's a crazy place to live. Yeah.
Those houses on the beach are like ridiculously expensive. Yeah.
And that's where a lot of, I mean,
a lot of the folks we were talking to yesterday, they live, uh, you know,
up on the mountain or in the valley.
That's a better spot. Anyway,
the thing about being by the beach is people can just kind of hang out in your
backyard, like right there, like right where your bedroom is,
that could be people that are cooking out four feet away from your head. Yeah.
That's so much privacy.
You got none. It's the beach.
It's everybody's like people have tried to kick people off of it too,
which gets really strange.
There's been a lot of those cases where they hire private security,
but it's like trying to kick someone out of a park because you decided to have a
picnic. That's true, man. This beach has everybody. Exactly.
That is got to stay that way. It has to stay. It's got to stay that way.
I have a problem with this. This is a personal problem with,
with municipalities that charge you to go to the beach crazy.
So if I have no money in my pocket,
you're going to bar me from going and putting my feet on the sand and running
for a surf in the ocean. That's just wrong.
It's insane. Wrong. It is wrong. Right. I mean,
I could see if you had a donation box to help people
clean up the beach. That's all I could say. Donations.
That's all throw some money in there.
Yeah. I'll pay for my parking. Sure, sure. You know,
but don't stop me from coming on the beach. Like, I'll catch a bus.
If I don't have any money, I'll get you a bus to the beach.
You've got to like, that's the whole reason we have these national parks,
national wilderness areas. It's anybody. Yeah. Anybody can get in there. Yeah.
That's the beautiful thing about one of the best things about the,
the system that we have in place in America is that there's so much public land
and people don't understand that they've never been to other countries where
that's just not the case. Everything is private in many, many countries.
You can't just go camping. You can't just take a raft and go down the river.
You can't just.
And, and what happens when those public spaces are lost,
when they're lost, they're lost forever. When you pave over them,
when you develop them, you know,
when your beaches become trash with pollution and others like that,
it's a treasure. It's a treasure. That's like.
Well, we have our forefathers to thank for their foresight.
Like Theodore Roosevelt saw this in advance and met with great
resistance from a lot of big businesses.
It just wanted to put apartments up everywhere and start building factories.
And we created this incredible system of public land in this country.
That's unprecedented. Yeah. I mean, only Canada has something that rivals us.
Well, I guess it was Australia has got a lot of public land too, but it's just,
there's other countries that have it, but it's amazing what we have here.
And in terms of our diversity of scenery and,
and where you could go to, I mean,
you could go to the desert or you could go to Idaho and, you know,
go to quarterly, a volcano.
In Hawaii.